Course-details:
Region:collection of zones
GCP-regions: total regions 29
total:zones 88
ahowa region--4 zone(a,b,c,s) 
Each region have 3 zone(called Data-center)
min distance between two zones are 100miles
1:USA

2:Europ

3:Asia-pasific
multi-region all region are inter-connected to each other they are giving avaialility and falut toularance
multi-region resources like global services : App engin,bigquery ,bigtable,cloudstorage,spanner,datastore,firestore and artifact registroy.

RESOURCE Herarchy
Organisation--folder--projects--resources

1:Organisation: highest permission and policy
tope level permissions.

2:Folder: nested folder are possible
3:Projects
4: Resources: Vm or any other resource all permission and rules will apply only on resources

Compute-engine  -------types  compute-engine
                          k8s engine
                          vmware-engine
Serverless-------App-engine
                 cloud-run
                cloud-function
 vm type on GCP
 custom machine
we can create vm according to our need like its cpu and ram as per our need we can select
we can  customize resources like cpu and ram we can choose the resources as per our requrienment very Unique features.
predefined Machine
but in predefined we can chose given formate that is best close to our need we can not go minimum limit of scope
predefind GCE family or types, Google already made diff cpu ram template that we choose.

GCP provide max 3.75TB ram for virtual machine.
We can attach local attach storage (direct attach storage or instance store)up 3TB this is temporary storage.
We can add up 64 TB storage for persistant disk.
important::
All data in GCP all data is encrypted default encryption key 
 
Instnace--types

General Purpose---------types
E2   day-to-day computing a lower cost,low traffic,testing purpose,containerise environement,small databases.
N1/N2/N2D N4:  balanced price and performace accorss wide range of vm shapes like Medium traffic,containerise environement,batch processing,
Tau/T2D:    scale in and scale out workload instance
C4A, C4, C3, C3D: high traffic,media streming,Databases and caches,gaming servers.

Memory-Optimized--Instance-Type(RAM ultra high workload)
M1/M2: ultra high memory workload task like cash memory or databases like work
Large and medium in-memory databases such as SAP HANA,OLAP and OLTP SAP workloads

Compute-optimized(CPU)
c2/C2D: compute workload like banking transctions Gamming ,add serving ,media transcoding

Accelerated Optimized: used for GPU accelerated workloads such as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and high performance computing (HPC).
A2/A3/A4: Pre-training models(AL),Fine-tuning models,Graphics-intensive workloads,

storage-optimized(z3):workloads that are low in core usage(cpu core) and high in storage density like
Z3:sql,NoSql,Vector database,searching.

GCP use KVM hyperviser having linux base karnel  
AWS using nitohypervisor.
local SSD like aws instance store that is like temporary storage remove when stop vm so aviad long term data storage,its is also called direct attach stoage cannot migrate Cannot store OS max size upto 3TB.
Persistant storge-bootable storage,can store OS on it ,network attached storage, max upto 64 TB ,Bydefault all Data is Encrypted by other cloud not have
Google charge 1 on first start after that it will chage per second
Booting time is very fast.

Other types of Instances
Share-core Machines--
    those machine that  can share its CPU like partial vcpu ,we can share its core for small workload or bach procesing
Sole-tenent-Machine
    It is Dedicated Hardware only for your infra no other can use the same hardware it is only for your workload and pay more this.
     


GCP vm pricing model

1:sustained use discount like on-demand
2:commited use discount--like reserved instance --one years   3 years
 sole tenet also part of this like dedecated host
3:preemtible or spot instance

disktype/hardisk/storage/Block storage/bootable storage
     1: zonal persistent Disk
          standard pd(HDD) --10gb
          ssd pd(SSD)   --gb
          balanced pd(SSD)  --10gb
          Extem pd(SSD)--500gb
    2: Regional persistent disk
        same types are in Regionsal disk like in zonal types
    3:Local Storage
       Non-persistent like instance store
       its direct attached storage fast but temporary data delete incase of server stop.
       Not Bootable
 
    
    4: Cloud storage Block 
         object storage
         Not bootable
         
    5: filestore
        shared storage
        not bootable
          





